# Shopify2Woo
Convert Shopify Orders to Woo Commerce Orders. This command line tool takes
an input CSV file and generates an output CSV file.

A few options exist to help "massage" the data into a more friendly
WooCommerce import format.

### The Initial Motivation for Shopify2Woo
I moved to WooCommerce because Shopify screwed me and shut down my payment
gateway (then charged me 3% to use a third party) because they accused me of 
selling alcohol without a license. They wouldn't listen to reason as to why 
I didn't sell alcohol, so my motivation was to get onto a platform that gave me
more power over my destiny, enter WooCommerce.

Now, my motivation is to make sure everyone else has the freedom to get off
the platform that backstabbed me after six years on their service. So, here
you go, my revenue... making it easier to get OFF their platform.

### Resources

WooCommerce CSV Import Suite (allows us to import orders):
https://docs.woocommerce.com/document/customer-order-csv-import-suite/

WooCommerce CSV Example Template:
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/16ub-_xEJD9V5UL6d_rTQ4LLu0PT9jXJ0Ti-iirlKyuU/edit#gid=584795629

Shopify Export Orders Specification:
https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/orders/export-orders

## Installation
I use setuptools for installation, and I have created a gitignore
for `venv` so you can simply issue the commands below in your terminal
to install and activate the environment.
```
cd app
virtualenv venv
. venv/bin/activate
pip install --editable .
```

## Basic Usage
The basic usage takes two command line parameters: an input csv, and an output.csv file (full path to file)

```
$ shopify2woo orders_export_1.csv /tmp/woo_output.csv
Exported 11000 orders(s)
```
In this example, we read in an order export generated by Shopify
called orders_export_1.csv that contains 11,000 orders and re-write them out in WooCommerce 
CSV format into /tmp/woo_output.csv.

### Advanced Options

**--sku-placeholder TEXT**

This option is designed to offer users the ability to add a SKU to
a product/item found in the Shopify orders if it does not have one
(the sku is missing). This will fail to import into WooCommerce as 
each item will need a SKU to associate itself.

Use this feature in conjunction with "Allow Unknown Products" checkbox
during the import with CVS Import Suite and get your product imported 
with the right pricing, this will leave an "Unknown Product" for the order
but the price will be present for it and accounted.

**--sample INTEGER**

This option will allow you to export a smaller sample of your orders
to test your data, do smaller dry-run imports or spot check by importing
into Google Sheets or Excel. For example, using `--sample 10` we can turn
our 11k order dataset into 10 orders.

**--order TEXT**

This option allows you to only export one specific order for a 1-order 
WooCommerce input. This can help you when trying to massage an entry that 
will not easily import (without having to dry-run all the data around it).

**--clean-only**

This option will skip all order entries that will generate a skip/rejection
by WooCommerce.


## Limitations

There are many limitations to shopify2woo.py, it's designed to import a specific
project of a specific size that encountered specific import issues during
the process. I encourage others to submit patches or additions to fit their
dataset challenges. This tool is just a starter for anyone that needs a beginning
spot to data prep for WooCommerce from Shopify.

### Taxes

This tool was designed for a New Hampshire, USA based store. We do not have
taxes, so I was unable to test all the fields that may be associated with taxes
as I don't have data to test it.

### Language: English

The only language tested was an English, this may be a flaw for more complicated
languages or different character sets.

### Other Missing Fields

We encountered a few issues with some of the orders, but it focused mainly around
e-mail addresses missing and SKU's missing. Other missing fields may cause WooCommerce
to get angry, but I didn't encounter those issues.

### Does not combine large datasets

Shopify splits large orders into multiple csv files. For our needs, I simply
re-ran Shopify2Woo once for each file and imported the resulting output (since 
it will not collide with each other).